Sections for ‘Applications of Quantum Computing Across
Different Fields’

Finance: Quantum Computing Reduces Risks in Financial
Networks

Reference: Aboussalah, A.M., Chi, C. and Lee, C.G., 2023. Quantum computing
reduces systemic risk in financial networks. Scientific Reports, 13(1), p.3990.

In finance, quantum computing is used to resolve issues in increasing
interdependencies between financial institutions. Inter-dependencies are
associated with loans, holding shares, and other liabilities. Institutions are
connected by their interdependencies and form a financial network.

Failure in financial institutions can propagate across the industry. Financial
institutions need to adjust for these inter-dependencies to prevent non-linear
cascade failures which can have detrimental effects on the market. Networks
need to optimize connections between institutions. Aboussalah et al.
developed new techniques for classical and quantum partitioning for directed
and weighted first graphs. Experimental results indicated that quantum
partitioning is more robust to financial shocks; delays cascades failure phase
transition; reduces total number of failures of convergence under systemic
risks with reduced timed complexity. The one-stage optimization algorithm
globally optimizes the cross-holdings across the interbank network in order to
minimize the total loss. “Using quantum partitioning for our two-stage
optimization creates better partitions which further delays the phase
transition of cascades and comes with additional computational efficiency
benefits due to quantum superposition effects. However, we were only able to
test up to 50 organizations due to quantum hardware limitations but quantum
hardware will improve over time.”
Applications of Quantum Computing in Biology
References: {Ghamsari, M.S., 2025. Quantum computing applications in biology.
Discover Computing, 28(1), p.276.} {Kumar, G., Yadav, S., Mukherjee, A., Hassija, V.
and Guizani, M., 2024. Recent advances in quantum computing for drug discovery and
development. IEEE Access, 12, pp.64491-64509.} {Lau, B., Emani, P.S., Chapman, J.,
Yao, L., Lam, T., Merrill, P., Warrell, J., Gerstein, M.B. and Lam, H.Y., 2023. Insights
from incorporating quantum computing into drug design workflows. Bioinformatics,
39(1), p.btac789.}

Quantum biology is the area of study that seeks to elucidate biological processes that
classical physics and computational techniques cannot fully explain, providing evidence
for the presence of quantum phenomena in living organisms. Examples include avian
navigation using the Earth’s magnetic field, photosynthesis, and genomic processes such
as DNA transmutation. Quantum effects such as coherence, tunneling and entanglement.
Coherence is believed to allow coordination and synchronization of individual
components within a biological system across various spatial domains.

“Quantum Computing has significant potential to advance sci-ence and technology,
particularly in areas like molecular biology. However, in the nearfuture, classical
computers will still be essential for many everyday applications. Quan-tum Computing
enhances computational drug discovery by improving the accuracyand efficiency of
simulations, strengthening machine learning models, and speeding upthe pharmaceutical
research process from initial screening, to preclinical evaluation. Italso supports research
onto complex diseases, fostering more equitable healthcare andresilience against global
health crises.”

“Lau et al. discuss the concept of HypaCADD, a hybrid classical-quantum
workflow method for determining ligand binding to proteins, and also
considers genetic mutations. They discussed how HypaCADD helps combine
classical docking and molecular dynamics with Quantum Machine Learning
(QML) to get a report on the impact of mutation. This paper outlines a neural
network constructed using qubit-rotation gates. It maps a classical machine
learning module onto QC. This is explained by taking a case study of the
novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) protease and its mutants. This paper also
states how QML performs on par with classical computing, if not better. It
summarises a successful strategy for leveraging QC for CADD by HypaCADD.”
Cybersecurity
References: {Yalcin, H., Daim, T., Moughari, M.M. and Mermoud, A., 2024.
Supercomputers and quantum computing on the axis of cyber security. Technology in
Society, 77, p.102556.} {Baseri, Y., Chouhan, V. and Ghorbani, A., 2024. Cybersecurity
in the quantum era: Assessing the impact of quantum computing on infrastructure. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2404.10659.}

“Quantum computing and supercomputers are technologies that have the potential to
revolutionize many industries, but also carry significant cybersecurity risks [1,2].
Quantum computers can handle much larger data sets than even the world's most
powerful supercomputers based on classical computing, while they have the power to
perform much more complex calculations [3]. Although quantum computers are still in
their infancy, they have the potential to be considered in terms of cybersecurity threats.”

“Organizations are actively researching and developing quantum-resistant
encryption methods and security protocols to mitigate these
potential risks. Shor’s algorithm directly breaks RSA and the Digital Signature Standard
in polynomial time. Variations of the same idea break elliptic curve cryptography and
more general class-group systems in polynomial time.

For comparison, RSA and elliptic curve cryptography are believed to be secure when the
attacker is not equipped with a quantum computer. ”


Quantum Computing in Chemistry and Chemical Engineering
References: {Weidman, J.D., Sajjan, M., Mikolas, C., Stewart, Z.J., Pollanen, J., Kais,
S. and Wilson, A.K., 2024. Quantum computing and chemistry. Cell Reports Physical
Science, 5(9).} {Imoto, T., Susa, Y., Miyazaki, R. and Matsuzaki, Y., 2024. Universal
quantum computation using quantum annealing with the transverse-field Ising
Hamiltonian. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.19114.}

“Though classical computers have had a monumental impact on science, there are still
many types of computational tasks and problems that remain intractable in terms of
scale even for the largest classical machines. In chemistry, for example, the many-body
entangled states underlying the electronic structure of a molecule cannot be modeled
fully even on today’s most powerful computers. Instead, numerous approximations are
required to make computations feasible for larger molecules. These approximations can
miss important electronic or electron-nuclear effects, especially for complicated
molecular systems such as complexes involving transition metals or heavy elements.”
Imoto et al. present a practice method for implementing universal quantum computation
within the conventional quantum annealing architecture using the transverse-field Ising
Hamiltonian. Method relies on an adiabatic transformation of the Hamiltonian, changing
from transverse fields to a ferromagnetic interaction regime where the ground states
become degenerate. “we remark that arbitrary unitary quantum gates can be constructed
by combining several types of unitary gates, called universal gate sets. Typically, either
phase accumulation (Ramsey interferometry) or application of an oscillating
field (such as Rabi oscillations) is adopted to implement the gate operations for a solid-
state quantum computer. It has the potential for a wide array of applications,
including quantum chemistry, machine learning, financial engineering, optimization
problems, and decrypting ciphers. Most quantum algorithms to achieve
quantum speed-up need quantum error collection, exemplified by a surface code. This
paradigm, known as fault-tolerant quantum computation(FTQC),
requires thousands of physical qubits per logical qubit to effectively suppress the noise
effect. Consequently, it is estimated that FTQC will at least require 10
million qubits to perform computations beyond the capabilities of existing classical
computers. Unlike the previous approach to perform the gate operations by either
applying an oscillating field or accumulating a relative phase, we utilize the degenerate
ground states to perform the X-rotation gate and controlled-not gate. We demonstrate the
effectiveness of our method by numerical simulations and experimental results.
Importantly, we do not use microwave pulses to implement gate operations. This feature
enhances scalability, as evidenced by the large-scale devices developed by D-Wave Inc.
Employing only the transverse-field Ising model, our approach holds substantial promise
for developing large-scale gate-based quantum computers.”


Quantum Computing in Physics and Electrical Engineering

References: {Ullah, M.H., Eskandarpour, R., Zheng, H. and Khodaei, A., 2022. Quantum computing
for smart grid applications. IET Generation, Transmission & Distribution, 16(21), pp.4239-4257.}
{Kumar, M.S., Krishna, R.V.V., Satyanarayana, V. and Ranjit, P.S., 2024. Battery Revolution: Quantum
Computing and Machine Intelligence Synergy. In Real-World Challenges in Quantum Electronics and
Machine Computing (pp. 30-42). IGI Global Scientific Publishing.} {Khalid, A., Tufail, S. and Sarwat,
A.I., 2021. A review on quantum computing approach for Next-Generation energy storage solution.
SoutheastCon 2021, pp.1-7.}
“The electric utility companies are slowly advancing towards
employing QC in various applications. Enel, an Italian multinational electricity and gas distributor,
made a partnership with
Data Reply, a company that offers AI-powered advanced data
analytics, to solve combinatorial optimization problems based
on the quadratic unconstrained binary optimization (QUBO)
model that creates an optimal plan for assigning maintenance
work for the crews. A UK-based utility company E.ON partnered with IBM, and
aims to implement quantum solutions for decentralized energy
infrastructure with DERs… A power flow study, also called load-flow analysis, is a steadystate analysis
to compute the currents, voltages, and real,
reactive, and apparent power flows in a system under specified
load settings. Power flow analyses are essential for the efficient
management of electric power systems. Describes a
fast decoupled power flow algorithm based on a quantum state
that utilizes Hermitian and constant Jacobian matrices. Also,
a computationally improved Harrow-Hassidim-Lloyd (HHL)
algorithm is presented to deal with the fast decoupled power
flow by quantum phase estimation and reciprocal rotation. A DC power flow problem is solved using
the HHL
algorithm, and it was demonstrated with a faster convergence
rate that the grid security can be enhanced using QC techniques.
However, the next generation quantum computers with large
quantum depths, qubit numbers, long coherence time, and lower
noises may be required to apply such approaches in large-scale
power systems, as suggested in… The current research in QC for smart grid
applications can be classified into two main categories. Category
1 concerns implementing classical algorithms in conventional
computers replicating quantum mechanics fundamentals such
as superposition, entanglement, and error correction and detec-TABLE 3 QC Smart Grid
applicationsApplication Category 1 Category 21 Power Flow - [41–44]
2 PMU Placement
3 Unit Commitment
4 Fault Management
5 Smart Grids’ Cyber Security
6 Stability Assessment
7 Transient Analysis
8 Reliability Assessment
9 Facility Location-allocation
10 Power System Control
11 Forecasting
tion. It also includes quantum cryptography, communication,
and simulations. Category 2 involves implementing computationally expensive algorithms on real-time
quantum computers.
The literature presented in this paper, summarized in Table 3,
is related to various smart grid applications, which are categorized into the classes mentioned above.
However, a detailed
summary of the literature is demonstrated in Table 4.3.1 Power flowA power flow study, also called
load-flow analysis, is a steadystate analysis to compute the currents, voltages, and real,
reactive, and apparent power flows in a system under specified
load settings. Power flow analyses are essential for the efficient
management of electric power systems. describes a
fast decoupled power flow algorithm based on a quantum state
that utilizes Hermitian and constant Jacobian matrices. Also,
a computationally improved Harrow-Hassidim-Lloyd (HHL)
algorithm is presented to deal with the fast decoupled power
flow by quantum phase estimation and reciprocal rotation. a DC power flow problem is solved using
the HHL
algorithm, and it was demonstrated with a faster convergence
rate that the grid security can be enhanced using QC techniques.
However, the next generation quantum computers with large
quantum depths, qubit numbers, long coherence time, and lower
noises may be required to apply such approaches in large-scale
power systems, as suggested in 3.2 Optimal PMU placementOptimal phasor measurement unit (PMU)
placement is a technique for reducing the number of phasor measurement units
(PMUs) necessary while ensuring that the complete power system is fully visible. The power system is
identified as observable
when the voltages of all buses in it are known. the
feasibility of QC is studied in solving optimal PMU placement optimization problems.”


“Although QC provides solutions corresponding to complex
particle rotations, there are multiple sources through which
errors get added on to the results. For instance, there is a possibility that any two particles would not
rotate to the same degree
when entangled. This is mainly due to the limited quality of
the control signals and the qubits sensitivity. Although, qubitsare kept in an isolated environment that
restricts unexpected
movements, they tend to interact with the environment and
as a result, possibly lose the stored information along with
the entanglement. This process is termed as decoherence
and is being compensated using a quantum error correction
approach, which is also used to reduce quantum noise (that
get incorporated into the microwave signals). However, this
approach limits the number of qubits and the amount of
processing that can be done with them .
To put this study into perspective, since the information
pertaining to the state of the particle is expressed as a qubit, a
particle in a standby mode could be considered to be analogous
to an electrochemical battery, but it requires qubit operations
that comply with the postulates of QM, in order to absorb/extract energy (charge/discharge). Towards
this, the quantum circuits and algorithms tailoring capability using Python allows battery researchers to
perform P-QB simulations
including battery parameter predicting/forecasting
by making customized adjustments. Proper designing and
application of work extraction protocols, ways to maximize
the quantum entanglement, and quantum advantage will have
a positive impact towards extracting maximum benefit from
P-QB simulations. This is still an early stage for quantum
algorithms to make drastic changes. Although multiple QC’s
have already been developed or are in the process, accessiblequbits restriction is a major limiting factor
for both P-QB
and C-QB simulations. This paper provides a review of the
concepts linking particles' QM, and QC approaches together,
for their application in the development of QBs. The approach
that QB manufacturers would apply to extend its scalability
to large scale applications still remains unknown. Finally, it
is evident that the development and further advancements in
QBs is closely linked with the developments in QC, hence the
authors are of the impression that although this is an early
stage for any QC driven innovations leading to formation
of next generation energy storage technologies, the works
discussed in this review indeed lay the foundation for future
improvements.”
